The Project Gutenberg eBook of Object, Matrimony, by B. M. Bower

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Object, Matrimony

Author: B. M. Bower

Release Date: February 26, 2022 [eBook #67516]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark. This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet Archive.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OBJECT, MATRIMONY ***


                          Object, Matrimony

    Being a Further Chapter in the Annals of “The Hall of Mirth,”
                  as Related by Bud Preston, Cowboy

                            By B. M. Bower

   Author of “The Hall of Mirth,” “The Curious Mr. Canfield,” Etc.


Women are all right—if yuh keep far enough away from them. It’s when
yuh take down your rope and commence to widen your loop for one that
trouble generally begins; or else when yuh get one, she runs on the
rope and keeps yuh guessing other ways.

The time I was working for old Shooting-star Wilson, I sure got an
object-lesson that I won’t forget in a week or two. We was living
happy and content, and meaning harm to nobody that winter. It was the
winter after Shooting-star had got his wad—ten thousand dollars—from
the old country, and had blowed it all in on a house to give a
Washington’s Birthday ball in. He sure done himself proud; and spent
every blame cent on the house and dance. So the next day he told Ellis
and me to roll our beds and move into the mansion—which same domicile
we called the Hall of Mirth, for various reasons that would uh stood
in court, all right.

It sure was a woozy proposition, for a real house. We got kinda
accustomed to the red, white, and blue diamonds painted on the floors,
and to the stars and stripes on the ceilings, and the red and green
and blue chairs; but they sure got on our nerves at first.

Folks used to come miles to see that house, which I will say was worth
the trip, all right. But, seeing it was built for a dance, it never
did get so it fit us, like some shacks do. We’d pull the biggest plush
chairs in the house up to the big fireplace in the back parlor, and
shut all the sliding-doors, and roll us a cigarette apiece, and stick
out our legs as far as nature’d allow, toward the fire. And even then
we felt like we’d been shut into a razzle-dazzle hall somewheres, and
the crowd had all gone off and left us; they were unmerciful big
rooms.

Ellis and me used to make a sneak down to the old bunk-house once in
awhile, and make a fire in the old stove, and snatch a little comfort.
But it always hurt Shooting-star’s feelings; and besides, he was such
an economical old cuss—in some ways. He said it ground him to have all
that good money into a house, and then not get any good out of it. So
we had to stick to the Hall of Mirth, whether we wanted to or not. But
honest, them rooms was so big they echoed like thunder; and the walls
and floors and ceilings was that gaudy we came near having to put on
brown goggles. Even the books was all red and blue and green bindings.
Shooting-star sure liked to have things match.

That winter all the kids in the country got to mixing things with
measles and whooping-cough, and the like, so there wasn’t any dances
or anything. Everybody stayed at home so they wouldn’t catch nothing,
and then wondered where the dickens they’d caught it at. So times was
dull, and there wasn’t nothing doing in the shape of amusement. One of
us would ride into Bent Willow, once in a week or so, and glom all the
papers and magazines we could. We’d just about finished the red and
blue and green books—what hadn’t just about finished us, that is.

So one day I rode in and brought out a bundle uh magazines—the kind
that’s thirty cents a year, or only twenty if yuh get up a club uh
four. Yuh know the brand all right, I guess. They have stories told in
shifts, and every shift saws off short just when you’re plumb wild
with desire to know how he rescued the beautiful Lady Floribel from
the up-stairs of the burning manor-house, with the staircase just
commencing to crackle up good; or some such a lay as that. And there’s
pages in it that tells yuh how to be beautiful, and others that hands
out wisdom on the momentous question of what it’s polite for a girl to
say to the gazabo she’s been dancing with, after he’s tromped on her
toes and took a chunk out of her dress; should she say, “Don’t mention
it,” or shall she bawl him out before the crowd the way she’d like to?

Ellis and I was playing pitch that night, and old Shooting-star had
the bunch uh magazines, going through them methodical and serious.
Shooting-star swallows everything he sees in print, like them writer
sharps didn’t know enough to lie. And once in awhile he’d read a piece
out to us. He went through the cooking page, licking his chops over
the salads and truck, and wishing we wasn’t such a bone-headed bunch,
so we could frame up some uh the things.

“A woman could sure do it,” he says, kinda thoughtful. “But it’s no
use either uh you tackling this here coffee frappy; but I’ll gamble
it’s out uh sight. There’s times,” he says, “when a woman is about the
best investment a man can make.”

“If he don’t go and invest in ’em too heavy,” puts in Ellis.

Shooting-star didn’t say no more then. But pretty soon he read out a
little short piece that they stuck in between the advertisements. It
said:

    A loveless life is a life barren of all joy, all
    contentment, all hope. Marriage broadens the life as
    nothing else can do; it rounds out character, makes for
    generosity and true sympathy. The man who is blessed with
    a true, loving helpmate need never fear the barren years
    of a lonely old age.

Or if them ain’t just the words, they’re mighty near it.

Shooting-star looks at us over his glasses. “Boys,” he says, “blamed
if I don’t believe that’s about so! An old bach like me sure does live
a kinda barren existence; and there ain’t enough joy in the life I’m
leading to talk about. I believe the men that’s broke to work double
has got all the best uh the deal. Anyway,” he says, pointed, “they can
git something to eat besides sour-dough bread and fried bacon and
stewed apricots. They git cake once in awhile; cake that’s fit to
eat.”

Ellis kinda brustled up at that. He’d been doing the cooking that
week, and he’d tackled a cake—a fruit-cake, with prunes in it for the
fruit—and he’d been short uh lard, and had used bacon grease for
short’ning, which give it a taste that didn’t harmonize none too well
with the prunes. It was sure hot stuff; we fed some of it to an old
pinto of Shooting-star’s that was a biscuit fiend; and the pinto
turned his lip up till he couldn’t hardly see over it, and went around
all day looking at us reproachful; it was giving him the double-cross,
all right, to hand out such a mess for him to swallow. So Ellis took
Shooting-star’s remark personal.

“Why don’t yuh get married, then?” he says. “Why don’t yuh cast your
loop over that widow in Bent Willow? The chances is she savvies
building a cake out uh nothing but bad flour and hope.”

That was a come-back at Shooting-star, who wasn’t a bit too liberal in
buying stuff to cook with.

“I wouldn’t take er as a gift,” says Shooting-star. And he goes back
to his magazine.

We played for awhile, and kinda forgot the subject, when the Old Man
breaks out in a new spot.

“Boys,” he says, “listen to this once:

    “A bright, loving, sensible young lady, with some means,
    would like to correspond with affectionate, honorable
    gentleman; one with some country property preferred. Must
    be sober, honest, and willing to make a good and loving
    husband. No trifler need answer this, or widower. Object,
    matrimony.

                                                       “L. A.”

He looked at us expectant, and waited for somebody to say something.

“Three,” said Ellis, looking at me.

“Pitch it,” said I; and he played the deuce uh spades.

Shooting-star grunted. “Anyway, I ain’t no trifler, and I ain’t a
widower,” he said, like we’d been arguing the point with him, and had
raised doubts of his being able to qualify.

“Which it’s a cinch you’ll wish yuh was,” remarked Ellis, without
looking up.

“And I’m there with the goods when it comes to country property,” said
Shooting-star, looking at us both kinda anxious. I seen him out uh the
tail uh my eye.

“And you’re shore affectionate and honorable,” put in Ellis,
sarcastic. Ellis hadn’t forgot the slur on his cake. “And you’re some
sober—by spells.”

Shooting-star rose up and looked fighty. “There’s times, young feller,
when punching would do yuh good,” he snarls, malignant.

“Yes, sir, punching would do yuh good; and if yuh don’t calm down and
have some manners about yuh, it’s apt to happen. If you can lay your
finger on a time when I was too full to walk straight, I’d sure admire
to have yuh. She says _sober_, which means walking straight and being
able to find the door. She don’t say I’ve got to be a darned
pro’bitionist, does she? Hey? And I guess I could be some
affectionate—if I had any call to be. And I ain’t no trifler. If I
answered her ad I’d mean business. And I ain’t a widower. She’s
bright, and lovin’, and sensible—and them brands sure look good to me.
I’d sure love to have somebody in the house with sense!”

“Well,” grins Ellis, “go after it, old-timer. But while Bud and me
mayn’t have much sense, yuh want to bear in mind that we’re sure
bright and loving.”

“Loving!” snorts Shooting-star, and went to spelling out the ad again
in a whisper.

Next morning Shooting-star saddled up and rode off to Bent Willow
mysterious. He wasn’t gone long, and he didn’t bring nothing back—not
even a jag; so Ellis and me frames it up between us that he’s up and
wrote to that bright, loving, sensible young lady that’s hankering for
a loving husband. Still, we don’t know nothing for sure, because
Shooting-star gets plumb silent on the subject, and all the hints we
throw out don’t bring results of any kind.

Ellis and me kinda worried over it, only we wouldn’t let on. But one
thing looked bad, and that was, Shooting-star would set by the hour
humped up in front uh the fireplace, reading over that advertisement,
and kinda dreaming and letting his pipe go cold. And then he’d come
alive and cast his eyes around that big razzle-dazzle room, and at the
ten-by-twelve foot picture uh George Washington—only it looked like a
Cree squaw with her hair braided down her back—on the wall, and he’d
rub his knees and nod his head, like somebody had just passed out a
bunch uh hot air about his good taste in fixing up a house. It all
looked plumb dubious to Ellis and me.

Next deal Ellis brought out a letter for Shooting-star, and showed me
where it was postmarked “Plumville, Illinois,” and was in a woman’s
handwriting. “It’s from her, all right,” he says. “L. A.—Lonesome Ann.
Shall I ditch it, for the good of old Shooting-star’s soul, Bud, or
shall I hand it over and let ’er slide?”

Honest, I come blame near telling him to ditch it, and say nothing.
But when yuh come to think uh the way they come down on yuh with both
feet if yuh go monkeying with the mails, even the good of the Old Man
wouldn’t hardly be worth playing the game out. So I told Ellis he
better give up the letter, and not butt into no romance—if romance it
was to be. Ellis took the letter in and handed it over to
Shooting-star, and Shooting-star kinda breathed long and easy, and
turned it over and over in his hands, like it assayed pure gold.

I nudged Ellis, and we went out into the kitchen and shut the door.

“So help me, Ellis!” I says, “if she does him up, or plays crooked, or
ain’t straight goods, you watch me be righteous vengeance. He’s going
to take the whole blame business serious.”

Ellis didn’t hardly agree. He said we could keep cases, and if the
game didn’t look all straight, why, we could buy in and coax
Shooting-star out. He said we had slathers of influence, if we was a
mind to use it right. So we kinda laid low and kept our eyes peeled.

That night Shooting-star commenced to knock the cooking—without cause,
too. It was my week in the kitchen, and I don’t back down from no man
on boiling coffee or making sour-dough biscuits. Besides them, I had
beefsteak you could cut with a paper knife, it was that tender; and
stewed prunes with the pits all oozing out; and fresh syrup made by
burning a little white sugar in the pan first for flavor, and beans.
And if that ain’t good enough for any white man to fill up on, I’ll
hand over the dish towel and resign prompt and willing. All that
evening Shooting-star set out in the kitchen and wrote. It sure be
hard labor, because in the morning the stove was half-full uh burnt
paper—where he’d backed up for a fresh start, I took it. Once in
awhile he’d holler in to Ellis and me for our idea of the spelling of
a word; and by keeping tab on them same words, we got an idea uh what
the letter was like. I know we spelled “heartfelt” and “barren,”
“generous” and “constant” and “prayer.” Ellis and me studied for an
hour over how he figured on ringing in that last word; but Ellis has
sure got a swell imagination, and when he thought about, “May the
angels watch over you is my prayer,” we savvied right off that we were
on the right trail. Say, I’d give a lot to uh seen that letter; I bet
she was sure hot stuff.

Shooting-star rode in and mailed it himself, which sure looked to us
like he lacked confidence in Ellis and me. Then he dubbed around in a
daze till he got the answer, which wasn’t long getting here, either.
They sure seemed to go after that corresponding business enthusiastic,
and as if they meant business. This here letter had her picture in it,
and Ellis and me like to perjured our souls and twisted our necks
plumb off trying to get a look at it. But Shooting-star wouldn’t let
us see anything but the back; and he packed it around in his inside
coat pocket between times, and we never could catch him with his coat
off. It was plumb aggravating.

Along about then he got extreme fastididus over what he eat, and
bellyached over the cooking till Ellis and me was fair desperate.
Ellis got on the peck, one night, and commenced throwing it into
Shooting-star about Lonesome Ann—which is what we called her.

“It looks like you’d hurry up the nooptials, then, before yuh starve
plumb to death,” he growls. “And have yuh got a affidavy that Lonesome
Ann can frame up any better meals than what Bud and me can? The
chances is she can’t. Some uh the darndest messes I ever insulted my
insides with was throwed together by the gentle hands uh woman. Yuh
don’t want to go into this thing with your hands tied behind yuh,
Shooting-star.”

Shooting-star quit shoveling sugar into his coffee. “I ain’t,” he
retorts, kinda lofty. “She can make coffee frappy and Charlotte Rush,
and floatin’ island and plum pudding and mince pie. I asked her in my
first letter. She can make everything in the Christmas menu on the
Housekeeper’s Page uh that _Family Cricket Magazine_. I asked her. And
in about three weeks you imitation chuck-slingers can git out the
kitchen, and let somebody in that can _cook_.”

Ellis kinda gulped, but he didn’t say nothing then. Afterwards, we
went down to the old bunk-house and started a fire, and talked it over
without results. Any way we looked at it we didn’t see no chance to
butt in. We both took the same stand—that a woman that had to
advertise for a man or go without, must sure be a hard proposition.
And we didn’t take no stock in her cooking, neither; that kind of a
female would likely lie promiscous when she was after a husband. We
shook our heads sorrowful, and wisht we’d held up that first letter.
Now things had gone so far we couldn’t do nothing but look on and be
sorry.

In about two weeks Shooting-star told us to turn loose and clean up
the Hall of Mirth. He said it was plumb scandalous the way we’d let
the dirt pile up a foot thick on the floor; and he wanted George
Washington gone over with a damp cloth—which was quite a contract,
considering the size of him—and the cobwebs swept off’n the stars and
stripes on the ceiling. He said it was a disgrace the way we’d let
that beautiful place go to rack and ruin. And when he come back, he
said (he was going to Butte to meet Lonesome Ann, and they was to be
hooked up there), he wanted the house good and warm, and we was to
have the table all set in the dining-room, and all the folding-doors
wide open, so Mrs. Shooting-star could get a good view uh the beauty
and richness of her new home at one glance.

“And for the Lord’s sake,” he winds up, “don’t throw matches and
cigarette-stubs on the floor; try and have some style about yuh. And,”
he says, “I want yuh to fix up that dance sign, and light it just
before we git here. Ellis can drive in after us, and Bud, yuh sure
want to remember that sign, and have it ready; and have all the lamps
lit, so these rooms’ll show up good. I want her to see, right off,
that there ain’t nothing small about Montana.”

The sign, if yuh remember, was the one we had up over the front door
on the night he gave the great dance he’d built the house for. It was
one uh these cloth boxes, with lamps inside, and it read: “Welcome to
the Hall of Mirth” in letters you could read clear down to the first
bend in the trail. It was sure gaudy and impressive, and it looked
like a dance-hall sign—only Shooting-star never seemed to realize it.
And as to the rooms, when the lamps was lit and all the big archways
opened up, you could stand in the front door and look right down about
seventy-five feet of insanity; through the big front parlor, and the
back parlor, and the dining-room. And the farther yuh looked the
crazier it got. Shooting-star sure had an eye for bright colors.

Ellis and me didn’t hardly take time to feed the stock and eat our
meals; and by the time the bride and groom was due, things was sure
shining. When we lit the lamps and stood by the front door, just to
see how she stacked up, we got so dizzy we had to grab hold uh the
casing. Mister! it would throw a crimp into a blind man.

Well, sir, she come. Ellis and me didn’t hardly believe she would, but
she did, all right. Ellis drove up to the front door with ’em just
after it got good and dark, and the sign was casting yellow light on
the snow, and all the big bay windows oozing brightness around the
edges—for I’d pulled the blinds, so she couldn’t see inside till she
got in. Shooting-star helped her out like she was made uh glass, and
led her up the steps, and: said: “Welcome to the Hall uh Mirth, Mrs.
Wilson.” And Ellis and me hunched each other, and waited.

Shooting-star throwed the door wide open, and pulled her in. And she
give one look, and then yelled like we’d stuck a pin in her. And then
she fell backward, and Ellis and me caught her—and she was plumb dead
to the world.

We packed her in and laid her on a sky-blue couch, and Ellis brought a
bucket uh water and a dipper, while I undone her wraps. Old
Shooting-star never done a blame thing but stand around in the way
with his jaw hanging slack. Ellis and me sloshed water on her
generous, and she come to enough to open her eyes and look around; but
when she seen them walls, with that great, ungodly picture uh George
Washington, she give another squawk, and come near going off again.
Then she commenced to cry—and I want to tell yuh right now, that she
had me going when she done that. She wasn’t no beauty, but she wasn’t
as big a freak as we’d looked for her to be; and she was plumb scared
at that house—and nobody blaming her but Shooting-star. He come up and
took the slack out uh his jaw long enough to ask what ailed her; and
when she just flinched away from him, like some horses do when yuh
throw a saddle on their backs unexpected, Shooting-star looked plumb
mad.

“It’s this darn, crazy shack yuh brought her to,” snaps Ellis. “Yuh
should ’a’ told her, and kinda prepared her for the worst, yuh
two-faced old skate.”

“There ain’t nothing the matter with the house,” says Shooting-star.
“It cost ten thousand dollars—and it suits _me_.”

But it sure didn’t suit the missus. She cried for a plumb hour, and
begged pitiful for us to take her away from that dreadful place. She
said she’d sure go crazy if she had to stop there overnight.

Ellis and me wanted to warm up the old bunk-house, and take her down
there, but old Shooting-star wouldn’t stand for it. He said this was
his home, and consequently _her_ home, and here’s where she belonged,
and had got to stay, so long as she lived with _him_. Shooting-star’s
easy, if yuh don’t get him roused up; but once he bows his neck, he
can’t be neither coaxed nor drove.

So then she got fighty, and said she never would live in such a
crazy-looking place, and he must uh been crazy to build it. And they
got to passing remarks back and forth, and pretty soon Ellis and me
took a sneak. We didn’t feel that we ought to be present at no such
domestic crisis. We went out and set in the kitchen, with our feet in
the oven, and waited for the returns; but we didn’t say much. Only
once I says: “Shooting-star sure needs killing, anyway, for bringing a
white woman into such a house and trying to make her gentle down and
stay here.”

By and by she hollers for us, and we hot-footed into the parlor again.
She was still on the couch, setting squeezed into a corner with her
face covered up with her hands.

“If you are _gentlemen_,” she says, kinda teary and trembly, “you’ll
help me get back to that little town, and away from this dreadful,
insane _person_, and this dreadful, insane place. And I hope the Lord
will forgive me for doing such a foolish thing as to marry him.”

Ellis and me looked grave, and told her the team was still hooked up,
and we’d take her, if she insisted.

Shooting-star laughed savage. “Yes, and yuh can’t take her a darned
bit too quick to suit me,” he grunts. “Anybody that can’t see the
beauty and comfort of this domicile, there’s sure something wrong with
that person’s head, and they can’t pull their freight too soon,” he
says, and walks, dignified, out into the kitchen. So Ellis and me
drove her back to Bent Willow; and seeing she didn’t have much
money—as we found out by questioning her artful—we borrowed fifty
dollars, and made her take it.

That was sure a brief honeymoon—for she never come back. Her year uh
residence was up a couple uh months ago, and soon as it was, she sued
him for a divorce and fifty a month alimony, and _got it_. The court
come out and looked at the Hall uh Mirth, and went back and wrote out
the decree immediate. So now she’s back in Plumville, Illinois, living
comfortable off that fifty a month.

And Shooting-star’s praying for good years and top prices for beef,
and cursing female women promiscous. And I notice he don’t make no
kick about the cooking.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the January 1907 issue
of The Popular Magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OBJECT, MATRIMONY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
